---
title: 'Protocol Guild Membership Approves zkEVM Working Group'
excerpt: 'After 2 weeks of discussion and thoughtful debate, Protocol Guild has approved the creation of a zkEVM working group.'
coverImage: '/zkEVMcover.png'
date: '2025-11-04'
---

After 2 weeks of discussion and thoughtful debate, Protocol Guild has approved the creation of a zkEVM working group. Follow up on the discussion here → [PR #400](https://github.com/protocolguild/documentation/pull/400).

The working group is initially focused on zkEVM attester client development. This emerging technology could transform how Ethereum nodes verify execution. Rather than running traditional execution clients, attester clients would verify cryptographic proofs generated by zkEVMs. This involves compiling execution clients into provable bytecode and building the infrastructure to generate and verify these proofs efficiently. The proposal covers prototype work on attester clients, guest program compilation, zkEVM specifications and proof verification systems.

Defining "Wayfinding"

The discussion also resulted in [clearer constraints](https://github.com/protocolguild/documentation/pull/400#issuecomment-3349168517) for research eligibility. Several members suggested the subjective nature of the category made eligibility decisions difficult. Some of the new considerations include:

-   Generally agreed to be a significant and worthwhile direction for the Protocol

-   Composed of contributors who are sufficiently tethered to Ethereum's core protocol R&D, potentially being part of existing entities of teams focused on such work

-   Performed according to general research principles, including open production of artifacts, peer review, and systemic, documented efforts to compare different approaches

-   Prototyping / "Research Engineering" Constraints

-   Supporting a research direction that satisfies the criteria outlined above

-   Equipped with sufficient resources that are commensurate with the complexity and confidence of the research direction, necessary to move the research direction to a concrete proposal for mainnet\
Conclusion

The decision to approve this working group reflects Protocol Guild's commitment to fund foundational protocol research into medium-term scaling explorations -- while maintaining our high funding bar for eligible work.
